Add Failure concept & KB article; expand Activity Cancellation (#1776)
temporalio/documentation: kb/failures.md

---
slug: failures

> title: Failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Temporal Failures
```

## Temporal Failure

Most SDKs have a base class that the other Failures extend:

- TypeScript: [`TemporalFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.TemporalFailure)
- Java: [`TemporalFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/TemporalFailure.html)
- Python: [`FailureError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.FailureError.html)

The base [`Failure` proto message](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure) has these fields:

- `string message`
- `string stack_trace`
- `string source`: The SDK this Failure originated in (for example, `"TypeScriptSDK"`). In some SDKs, this field is used to rehydrate the stack trace into an exception object.
- `Failure cause`: The `Failure` message of the cause of this Failure (if applicable).
- `Payload encoded_attributes`: Contains the encoded `message` and `stack_trace` fields when using a Failure Converter. <!-- TODO link to concept page -->

## Application Failure

Workflow and Activity code use Application Failures to communicate application-specific failures that happen.
This is the only type of Failure created and thrown by user code.

> - TypeScript: [`ApplicationFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ApplicationFailure)
> - Java: [`ApplicationFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ApplicationFailure.html)
> - Go: [`ApplicationError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ApplicationError)
> - Python: [`ApplicationError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ApplicationError.html)
> - Proto: [`ApplicationFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ApplicationFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [ApplicationFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ApplicationFailure)
- Java: [ApplicationFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ApplicationFailure.html)
- Go: [ApplicationError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ApplicationError)
- Python: [ApplicationError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ApplicationError.html)
- Proto: [ApplicationFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ApplicationFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

### Throw from Workflows

> Only Workflow errors that are Temporal Failures will cause the Worklow Execution to fail: all other errors will cause the Workflow Task to fail and be retried (except for Go, where any error returned from the Workflow will fail the Execution, and a panic will fail the Task).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only Workflow errors that are Temporal Failures cause the Worklow Execution to fail; all other errors cause the Workflow Task to fail and be retried (except for Go, where any error returned from the Workflow fails the Execution, and a panic fails the Task).
```

Most types of Temporal Failures automatically occur, like a [Cancelled Failure](#cancelled-failure) when the Workflow is Cancelled or an [Activity Failure](#activity-failure) when an Activity Fails.
You can also explicitly fail the Workflow Execution by throwing (or returning, depending on the SDK) an Application Failure.

### Throw from Activities

In Activities, you can either throw an Application Failure or another Error to fail the Activity Task.

> In the latter case, the error will be converted to an Application Failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the latter case, the error is converted to an Application Failure.
```

During conversion, the following Application Failure fields are set:

> - `type` is set to the error's type name
> - `message` is set to the error message
> - `non_retryable` is set to false
> - `details` are left unset
> - `cause` is a Failure converted from the error's `cause` property
> - stack trace is copied

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `type` is set to the error's type name.
- `message` is set to the error message.
- `non_retryable` is set to false.
- `details` are left unset.
- `cause` is a Failure converted from the error's `cause` property.
- stack trace is copied.
```

> When an [Activity Execution](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution) fails, the Application Failure from the last Activity Task will be the `cause` field of the [ActivityFailure](#activity-failure) thrown in the Workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an [Activity Execution](/activities#activity-execution) fails, the Application Failure from the last Activity Task is the `cause` field of the [ActivityFailure](#activity-failure) thrown in the Workflow.
```

### Non-retryable

> When an Activity or Workflow throws an Application Failure, the Failure's `type` field is matched against a Retry Policy's list of [non-retryable errors](/concepts/what-is-a-retry-policy#non-retryable-errors) to determine whether to retry the Activity or Workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an Activity or Workflow throws an Application Failure, the Failure's `type` field is matched against a Retry Policy's list of [non-retryable errors](/retry-policies#non-retryable-errors) to determine whether to retry the Activity or Workflow.
```

Activities and Workflow can also avoid retrying by setting an Application Failure's `non_retryable` flag to `true`.

## Cancelled Failure

> When [Cancellation](/concepts/what-is-an-activity-execution#cancellation) has been requested of a Workflow or Activity, SDKs represent this to the user in language-specific ways. For example, in TypeScript, in some cases a Cancelled Failure will be thrown directly by a Workflow API function, and in other cases the Cancelled Failure will be wrapped in a different Failure. To check both types of cases, TypeScript has the [`isCancellation` helper](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#iscancellation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When [Cancellation](/activities#cancellation) of a Workflow or Activity is requested, SDKs represent the cancellation to the user in language-specific ways.
For example, in TypeScript, in some cases a Cancelled Failure is thrown directly by a Workflow API function, and in other cases the Cancelled Failure is wrapped in a different Failure.
To check both types of cases, TypeScript has the [isCancellation](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/namespaces/workflow#iscancellation) helper.
```

<!-- TODO also link to Workflow Cancellation concept -->

> When a Workflow or Activity has been successfully Cancelled, a Cancelled Failure will be the `cause` field of the Activity Failure or "Workflow failed" error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a Workflow or Activity is successfully Cancelled, a Cancelled Failure is the `cause` field of the Activity Failure or "Workflow failed" error.
```

> - TypeScript: [`CancelledFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.CancelledFailure)
> - Java: [`CanceledFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/CanceledFailure.html)
> - Go: [`CanceledError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#CanceledError)
> - Python: [`CancelledError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.CancelledError.html)
> - Proto: [`CanceledFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.CanceledFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [CancelledFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.CancelledFailure)
- Java: [CanceledFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/CanceledFailure.html)
- Go: [CanceledError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#CanceledError)
- Python: [CancelledError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.CancelledError.html)
- Proto: [CanceledFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.CanceledFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

## Activity Failure

An Activity Failure is delivered to the Workflow Execution when an Activity fails.

> It contains information about the failure and the Activity Execution, for example the Activity Type and Id.
> The reason for the failure will be in the `cause` field.
> For example, if an Activity Execution times out, the `cause` will be a [Timeout Failure](#timeout-failure).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It contains information about the failure and the Activity Execution; for example, the Activity Type and Activity Id.
The reason for the failure is in the `cause` field.
For example, if an Activity Execution times out, the `cause` is a [Timeout Failure](#timeout-failure).
```

> - TypeScript: [`ActivityFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ActivityFailure)
> - Java: [`ActivityFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ActivityFailure.html)
> - Go: [`ActivityError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ActivityError)
> - Python: [`ActivityError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ActivityError.html)
> - Proto: [`ActivityFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ActivityFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [ActivityFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ActivityFailure)
- Java: [ActivityFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ActivityFailure.html)
- Go: [ActivityError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ActivityError)
- Python: [ActivityError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ActivityError.html)
- Proto: [ActivityFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ActivityFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

## Child Workflow Failure

A Child Workflow Failure is delivered to the Workflow Execution when a Child Workflow Execution fails.

> It contains information about the failure and the Child Workflow Execution, for example the Workflow Type and Id.
> The reason for the failure will be in the `cause` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It contains information about the failure and the Child Workflow Execution; for example, the Workflow Type and Workflow Id.
The reason for the failure is in the `cause` field.
```

> - TypeScript: [`ChildWorkflowFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ChildWorkflowFailure)
> - Java: [`ChildWorkflowFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ChildWorkflowFailure.html)
> - Go: [`ChildWorkflowExecutionError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ChildWorkflowExecutionError)
> - Python: [`ChildWorkflowError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ChildWorkflowError.html)
> - Proto: [`ChildWorkflowExecutionFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ChildWorkflowExecutionFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [ChildWorkflowFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ChildWorkflowFailure)
- Java: [ChildWorkflowFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ChildWorkflowFailure.html)
- Go: [ChildWorkflowExecutionError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ChildWorkflowExecutionError)
- Python: [ChildWorkflowError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ChildWorkflowError.html)
- Proto: [ChildWorkflowExecutionFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ChildWorkflowExecutionFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

## Timeout Failure

> Represents the timeout of an [Activity](/application-development/features#activity-timeouts) or [Workflow](/application-development/features#workflow-timeouts) Execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Timeout Failure represents the timeout of an [Activity](/application-development/features#activity-timeouts) or [Workflow](/application-development/features#workflow-timeouts) Execution.
```

When an Activity times out, the last Heartbeat details it emitted is attached.

> - TypeScript: [`TimeoutFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.TimeoutFailure)
> - Java: [`TimeoutFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/TimeoutFailure.html)
> - Go: [`TimeoutError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#TimeoutError)
> - Python: [`TimeoutError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.TimeoutError.html)
> - Proto: [`TimeoutFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.TimeoutFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [TimeoutFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.TimeoutFailure)
- Java: [TimeoutFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/TimeoutFailure.html)
- Go: [TimeoutError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#TimeoutError)
- Python: [TimeoutError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.TimeoutError.html)
- Proto: [TimeoutFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.TimeoutFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

## Terminated Failure

> Used as the `cause` of an error when a Workflow has been Terminated, and you receive the error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Terminated Failure is used as the `cause` of an error when a Workflow is terminated, and you receive the error in one of the following:
```

- Inside a Workflow that's waiting for the result of a Child Workflow.
- When waiting for the result of a Workflow on the Client.

In the SDKs:

> - TypeScript: [`TerminatedFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.TerminatedFailure)
> - Java: [`TerminatedFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/TerminatedFailure.html)
> - Go: [`TerminatedError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#TerminatedError)
> - Python: [`TerminatedError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.TerminatedError.html)
> - Proto: [`TerminatedFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.TerminatedFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [TerminatedFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.TerminatedFailure)
- Java: [TerminatedFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/TerminatedFailure.html)
- Go: [TerminatedError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#TerminatedError)
- Python: [TerminatedError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.TerminatedError.html)
- Proto: [TerminatedFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.TerminatedFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```

## Server Failure

> Used for errors that originated in the Cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Server Failure is used for errors that originate in the Cluster.
```

> - TypeScript: [`ServerFailure`](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ServerFailure)
> - Java: [`ServerFailure`](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ServerFailure.html)
> - Go: [`ServerError`](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ServerError)
> - Python: [`ServerError`](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ServerError.html)
> - Proto: [`ServerFailureInfo`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ServerFailureInfo) and [`Failure`](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- TypeScript: [ServerFailure](https://typescript.temporal.io/api/classes/common.ServerFailure)
- Java: [ServerFailure](https://www.javadoc.io/doc/io.temporal/temporal-sdk/latest/io/temporal/failure/ServerFailure.html)
- Go: [ServerError](https://pkg.go.dev/go.temporal.io/sdk/temporal#ServerError)
- Python: [ServerError](https://python.temporal.io/temporalio.exceptions.ServerError.html)
- Proto: [ServerFailureInfo](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.ServerFailureInfo) and [Failure](https://api-docs.temporal.io/#temporal.api.failure.v1.Failure)
```
